docs/Community_IRC.md, before:

# IRC Channel / Matrix / Discord

## 👏 Overview

As announced in the [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/12803-armbian-irc-channel/) everyone interested can communicate in realtime using the [internet relay chat (or *IRC*)](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat).
Well known clients for CLI are [Weechat](https://weechat.org/) or [Irssi](https://irssi.org/) and for GUI [Hexchat](https://hexchat.github.io/).  

Besides that communication is also possible via _Matrix_ or _Discord_.

## 🔌 Connect

### IRC

+ Server: `irc.libera.chat`  
+ Ports: `6697` / non-encrypted: `6667`  
+ Channel: `#armbian`  

In order to enter main `#armbian` channels registration with Nickserv is mandatory. Check [Libera Chat documentation](https://libera.chat/guides/registration) for further information.

### Discord

Simply click here: [http://discord.armbian.com](http://discord.armbian.com)  
Channels starting with `#armbian-` are relayed between Discord and IRC so it does not matter if you join IRC or Discord as both receive your messages. Check `#welcome-and-rules` for more information.

### Matrix

Simply join this room with our Matrix client: `#armbian:libera.chat`  
Channel names are the same as for IRC mentioned below.

## 🛑 Rules

Forums registration terms and rules apply for our chats: [https://forum.armbian.com/terms](https://forum.armbian.com/terms)

## 💬 Channels

+ **`#armbian`** is the project's main channel. Issue tracking, peer-to-peer user support or [upcoming release planning talks](https://docs.armbian.com/Process_Release-Model/#release-planning).
+ **`#armbian-devel`** : build engine development topics
+ **`#armbian-desktop`** : desktop environment development
+ **`#armbian-csc`** unsupported/deprecated board talk
+ **`#armbian-allwinner`** Allwinner SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-amlogic`** Amlogic SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-broadcom`** Broadcom SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-rockchip`** Rockchip SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-offtopic`** General chit chat
+ **`#armbian-commits`** is a moderated channel. Whenever a new interaction with a [repository on Github](https://github.com/armbian/) happens it will be announced. Also newly added issues on [Jira](https://armbian.atlassian.net/projects/AR/issues/?filter=allissues) will be pasted. User chat is not possible.
+ **`#armbian-rss`** is a live forum feed. Whenever a new post in the Armbian Forums is made it will be announced here. User chat is not possible.
Of course, you can also enable desktop notification in your favorite browser for the forums.

Everybody is free to join any of these channels.
We may or may not add more channels in future depending on the needs.

## 👮 Services

Besides the services offered by Libera (like Nickserv or Chanserv) Armbian has set up some own services.  

**`ArmbianGithub`**

+ Has the purpose to fill #armbian-commits and #armbian-rss like described above

**`Armbian-Discord`**

+ Has the purpose to relay messages from and to our Discord server in certain channels

**`ArmbianTwitter`**

+ Recurring searches on Twitter for new Tweets from [*@armbian*](https://twitter.com/armbian) and when people are actually mentioning *Armbian*

**`ArmbianHelper`**

+ Allows searching for Issues and Task on [Jira](https://armbian.atlassian.net/projects/AR/issues)
  + If you know the actual task id simply write it to the channel and the bot will look it up. Like `AR-123`
  + Search issue by keyword/s in the summary. Like `,searchissue Allwinner H6`  
          Take note of the `,`. Will output up to three results.
+ Allows searching forums via Google API (not very precise though)
  + Example: `,g Allwinner H6 panfrost`
+ A few more minor commands, mostly used by staff or do not need introduction
  + `.nonprofit`, `.sed`, `.contribute`, `.rtfm`, `.fortune`, `.sunxi`, `.meson`, `help`, `help irc`, `.tvboxes`
+ Translation for non-native English speakers
  + Simply start your sentence with `--` at the beginning and the bot will translate your message regardless of the source language into English.  
          *Note*: This services will be activated manually on demand (like planned meetings for example) since its backend generates cost.

## ❔ FAQ

+ Why are there so many people in the channel and nobody is talking?
  + It is pretty common for community IRC channels for people to simply *idle* there. Many also using so called IRC bouncers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BNC_(software>) that keeps their connection to the channel alive.

+ I wrote 'Hi' but nobody answered. How do I get support there?
  + Probably there is nobody around at the time. Keep in mind that all users are spread around the globe and therefore living in many different time zones.  
It is a common habit to simply state your question or issue and then wait patiently for an answer. Depending how complex this may take up to a few hours because most Armbian contributors have detailed knowledge in a specific board family only.
+ Is the chat history public as well?
  + Yes. All conversation is redundantly logged. These logs are open to the public. You can find them here: [http://irc.armbian.com](http://irc.armbian.com)
+ Why do some people have odd hostnames like `@armbian/staff/lanefu` or `@user/username`?
  + These *hostnames* are so called project affiliation cloaks. These are meant to show a users affiliation to a specific project and their role there.
+ Can I have that too?
  + Yes. An Armbian affiliation cloak can be requested from *Werner* either via [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/profile/9032-werner/) or IRC. They usually will be granted if you are a well known member in forums, a contributor via Github or donated to the project. Make sure you identified yourself to Nickserv beforehand.
If you cannot find yourself in the list above you are free to request an unaffiliated cloak from Libera staff. Join #libera for that.
+ How can I protect my nickname so nobody can spoof me?  
  + Register your nick with Libera's Nickserv service. Check [https://libera.chat/guides/registration](https://libera.chat/guides/registration)  
    Even though it is not mandatory you should register and identify with the services as other channels for example may not allow unregistered users to chat or join at all as anti-spam measure.
+ Why do some users have voice (+v) in channel?
  + As mentioned in [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/12803-armbian-irc-chat/?tab=comments#comment-96828) "all contributors to the project, regardless if forums staff, contributor on Github or well known and longtime active user" may get voice on request.
+ Should I add **away** to my nick if I am AFK? Like **Werner|away**
  + No. Please use the `/away [reason]` command as intended. For an explanation please have a look at the [ZNC Wiki](https://wiki.znc.in/Awaynick).

## 👉 Bottom line

If you have any questions, comments regarding the IRC channels and/or services or found an issue in this documentation for think you can enhance it get in touch with *Werner* either via [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/profile/9032-werner/) or IRC.

By the way if you like to have a free IRC bouncer to always be up-to-date and never miss a conversation again you should check out [this thread](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/13943-irc-bouncer-giveaway/).

Commit message:

update IRC docs (#317)
* Replace with discord URL

since it is now officially verified.
Hide Twitter bot since non-functional.

* Update Community_IRC.md

* Update Community_IRC.md

* grammar

docs/Community_IRC.md, after:

# IRC Channel / Matrix / Discord

## 👏 Overview

As announced in the [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/12803-armbian-irc-channel/) everyone interested can communicate in realtime using the [internet relay chat (or *IRC*)](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat).
Well known clients for CLI are [Weechat](https://weechat.org/) or [Irssi](https://irssi.org/) and for GUI [Hexchat](https://hexchat.github.io/).  

Besides that communication is also possible via _Matrix_ or _Discord_.

## 🔌 Connect

### IRC

+ Server: `irc.libera.chat`  
+ Ports: `6697` / non-encrypted: `6667`  
+ Channel: `#armbian`  

In order to enter main `#armbian` channels registration with Nickserv is mandatory. Check [Libera Chat documentation](https://libera.chat/guides/registration) for further information.

### Discord

Simply click here: [https://discord.gg/armbian](https://discord.gg/armbian)  
Channels starting with `#armbian-` are relayed between Discord and IRC so it does not matter if you join IRC or Discord as both receive your messages. Check `#welcome-and-rules` for more information.

### Matrix

Simply join this room with our Matrix client: `#armbian:libera.chat`  
Channel names are the same as for IRC mentioned below.

## 🛑 Rules

Forums registration terms and rules apply for our chats: [https://forum.armbian.com/terms](https://forum.armbian.com/terms)

## 💬 Channels

+ **`#armbian`** is the project's main channel. Issue tracking, peer-to-peer user support or [upcoming release planning talks](https://docs.armbian.com/Process_Release-Model/#release-planning).
+ **`#armbian-devel`** : build engine development topics
+ **`#armbian-desktop`** : desktop environment development
+ **`#armbian-csc`** unsupported/deprecated board talk
+ **`#armbian-allwinner`** Allwinner SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-amlogic`** Amlogic SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-broadcom`** Broadcom SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-rockchip`** Rockchip SoC talk
+ **`#armbian-offtopic`** General chit chat
+ **`#armbian-commits`** is a moderated channel. Whenever a new interaction with a [repository on Github](https://github.com/armbian/) happens it will be announced. Also newly added issues on [Jira](https://armbian.atlassian.net/projects/AR/issues/?filter=allissues) will be pasted. User chat is not possible.
+ **`#armbian-rss`** is a live forum feed. Whenever a new post in the Armbian Forums is made it will be announced here. User chat is not possible.
Of course, you can also enable desktop notification in your favorite browser for the forums.

Everybody is free to join any of these channels.
We may or may not add more channels in future depending on the needs.

## 👮 Services

Besides the services offered by Libera (like Nickserv or Chanserv) Armbian has set up some own services.  

**`ArmbianGithub`**

+ Has the purpose to fill #armbian-commits and #armbian-rss like described above

**`DC-IRC`**

+ Has the purpose to relay messages between IRC and Discord. Applies for all channels beginning with `#armbian-`.

<!---**`ArmbianTwitter`**

+ Recurring searches on Twitter for new Tweets from [*@armbian*](https://twitter.com/armbian) and when people are actually mentioning *Armbian*-->

**`ArmbianHelper`**

+ Allows searching for Issues and Task on [Jira](https://armbian.atlassian.net/projects/AR/issues)
  + If you know the actual task id simply write it to the channel and the bot will look it up. Like `AR-123`
  + Search issue by keyword/s in the summary. Like `,searchissue Allwinner H6`  
          Take note of the `,`. Will output up to three results.
+ Allows searching forums via Google API (not very precise though)
  + Example: `,g Allwinner H6 panfrost`
+ A few more minor commands, mostly used by staff or do not need introduction
  + `.nonprofit`, `.sed`, `.contribute`, `.rtfm`, `.fortune`, `.sunxi`, `.meson`, `help`, `help irc`, `.tvboxes`
+ Translation for non-native English speakers
  + Simply start your sentence with `--` at the beginning and the bot will translate your message regardless of the source language into English.  
          *Note*: This services will be activated manually on demand (like planned meetings for example) since its backend generates cost.

## ❔ FAQ

+ Why are there so many people in the channel and nobody is talking?
  + It is pretty common for community IRC channels for people to simply *idle* there. Many also using so called IRC bouncers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BNC_(software>) that keeps their connection to the channel alive.

+ I wrote 'Hi' but nobody answered. How do I get support there?
  + Probably there is nobody around at the time. Keep in mind that all users are spread around the globe and therefore living in many different time zones.  
It is a common habit to simply state your question or issue and then wait patiently for an answer. Depending how complex this may take up to a few hours because most Armbian contributors have detailed knowledge in a specific board family only.
+ Is the chat history public as well?
  + Yes. All conversation is redundantly logged. These logs are open to the public. You can find them here: [http://irc.armbian.com](http://irc.armbian.com)
+ Why do some people have odd hostnames like `@armbian/staff/lanefu` or `@user/username`?
  + These *hostnames* are so called project affiliation cloaks. These are meant to show a users affiliation to a specific project and their role there.
+ Can I have that too?
  + Yes. An Armbian affiliation cloak can be requested from *Werner* either via [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/profile/9032-werner/) or IRC. They usually will be granted if you are a well known member in forums, a contributor via Github or donated to the project. Make sure you identified yourself to Nickserv beforehand.
If you cannot find yourself in the list above you are free to request an unaffiliated cloak from Libera staff. Join #libera for that.
+ How can I protect my nickname so nobody can spoof me?  
  + Register your nick with Libera's Nickserv service. Check [https://libera.chat/guides/registration](https://libera.chat/guides/registration)  
    Even though it is not mandatory you should register and identify with the services as other channels for example may not allow unregistered users to chat or join at all as anti-spam measure.
+ Why do some users have voice (+v) in channel?
  + As mentioned in [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/12803-armbian-irc-chat/?tab=comments#comment-96828) "all contributors to the project, regardless if forums staff, contributor on Github or well known and longtime active user" may get voice on request.
+ Should I add **away** to my nick if I am AFK? Like **Werner|away**
  + No. Please use the `/away [reason]` command as intended. For an explanation please have a look at the [ZNC Wiki](https://wiki.znc.in/Awaynick).

## 👉 Bottom line

If you have any questions, comments regarding the IRC channels and/or services or found an issue in this documentation for think you can enhance it get in touch with *Werner* either via [forums](https://forum.armbian.com/profile/9032-werner/) or IRC.

By the way if you like to have a free IRC bouncer to always be up-to-date and never miss a conversation again you should check out [this thread](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/13943-irc-bouncer-giveaway/).
