docs/Community_Governance.md, before:

# Maintainers

## Board / Platform / Maintainers

See individual board configuration files for named maintainer of SBC.

## Armbian Base Maintainers

| Area                          | Lead Maintainer | Maintainers                   | Acronyms, Codenames             | additional info                      |
|-------------------------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Build Scripts                 | @igorpecovnik   | @lanefu                       | `/lib/*.sh`                     | code responsible for building images |
| Armbian-Tools                 | @igorpecovnik   |                               | armbian-config, armbian-monitor | userland tools provided by Armbian   |
| Armbian-Tools: armbian-config |                 |                               | armbian-config                  |                                      |
| Multimedia/Desktops           |                 | @JMCC, @jernejsk, @Miouyouyou |                                 |                                      |

## Other Roles

| Area                         | Lead Maintainer | Maintainers                                              | Acronyms, Codenames | additional info |
|------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------|
| Release Management           | @igorpecovnik   |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Testing and Code Quality, CI | @lanefu         | @igorpecovnik                                            |                     |                 |
| Security                     |                 |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Documentation                |                 | @Werner                                                  |                     |                 |
| Community Engagement         |                 | @NicoD, @tido                                            |                     |                 |
| Legal and Financial          | @igorpecovnik   |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Web and Infrastucture        | @lanefu         | @[TheBug]                                                |                     |                 |
| Forums moderation            | @Werner         | [click](https://forum.armbian.com/members/2-moderators/) |                     |                 |
| IRC, Discord                 | @Werner         |                                                          |                     |                 |

## Hackers Emeritus

Members who have stepped away from the project, but had a huge impact.  We always welcome their contributions and wisdom.

* @tkaiser
* @zador.blood.stained
* @rneese

Commit message:

Update Community_Governance.md (#251)
Preliminary update -- next update will be to add Governance Charters and documentation links to this document

docs/Community_Governance.md, after:

# Armbian Governance

## Armbian Board Maintainers

You can see the current list of supported boards and their maintainers <a href="https://docs.armbian.com/Release_Board-Maintainers/">here</a>

## Armbian Platform Maintainers

| Area                          | Lead Maintainer | Maintainers                   | Acronyms, Codenames             | additional info                      |
|-------------------------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Build Scripts                 | @igorpecovnik   | @lanefu                       | `/lib/*.sh`                     | code responsible for building images |
| Armbian-Tools                 | @igorpecovnik   |                               | armbian-config, armbian-monitor | userland tools provided by Armbian   |
| Armbian-Tools: armbian-config |                 |                               | armbian-config                  |                                      |
| Multimedia/Desktops           |                 | @JMCC, @jernejsk, @Miouyouyou |                                 |                                      |

## Additional Armbian Roles

| Area                         | Lead Maintainer | Maintainers                                              | Acronyms, Codenames | additional info |
|------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------|
| Release Management           | @igorpecovnik   |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Testing and Code Quality, CI | @lanefu         | @igorpecovnik                                            |                     |                 |
| Security                     |                 |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Documentation                | @TheLinuxBug    | @Werner                                                  |                     |                 |
| Community Engagement         | @TheLinuxBug    | @NicoD, @tido, @Werner                                   |                     |                 |
| Legal and Financial          | @igorpecovnik   |                                                          |                     |                 |
| Web and Infrastucture        | @lanefu         | @TheLinuxBug                                             |                     |                 |
| Forums moderation            | @Werner         | [Click to view full moderators list](https://forum.armbian.com/members/2-moderators/) |                     |                 |
| IRC, Discord                 | @Werner         |                                                          |                     |                 |

## Community Governance Charters and Documentation
<b>Coming soon!</b>

## Hackers Emeritus

Members who have stepped away from the project, but had a huge impact.  We always welcome their contributions and wisdom.

* @tkaiser
* @zador.blood.stained
* @rneese
