docs/Hardware_Freescale-imx6.md, before:

# Cubox and Hummingboard boards

## Legacy
System images with legacy kernel

- Kernel [3.14.x](https://github.com/linux4kix/linux-linaro-stable-mx6) with large hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/490-docker-on-armbian/) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- PCI-E operational (Hummingboard Pro, Gate & Edge)
- mSATA / m2 operational (Hummingboard Pro & Edge)
- Enabled audio devices: HDMI, spdif, analogue
- [Bluetooth ready](https://wiki.debian.org/BluetoothUser) (working with Cubox-i/HB PRO on-board device or external key)
- [I2C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%C2%B2C) ready and tested with small 16×2 LCD. Basic i2c tools included.
- SPI ready and tested with ILI9341 based 2.4″ TFT LCD display.
- [Drivers for small TFT LCD](https://github.com/notro/fbtft) display modules.
- [USB redirector](https://www.incentivespro.com/usb-server-usage.html) – for sharing USB over TCP/IP (disabled by default /etc/init.d/rc.usbsrvd)

### Bugs or limitation

- Gigabit ethernet transfer rate is around 50% of its theoretical max rate (internal chip bus limitation)

## Mainline
System images with mainline kernel

- [Mainline](https://www.kernel.org/) with large hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](/User-Guide_Advanced-Features/#how-to-run-docker) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- PCI-E operational (Hummingboard Pro, Gate & Edge)
- mSATA / m2 operational (Hummingboard Pro & Edge)
- Enabled audio devices
- Bluetooth ready (working with supported external keys)

### Bugs or limitation

- Gigabit ethernet transfer rate is around 50% of its theoretical max rate (internal chip bus limitation)

## Desktop

- Pre-installed: Firefox, LibreOffice Writer, Thunderbird
- Lightweight XFCE desktop
- Autologin, when normal user is created – no login manager (/etc/default/nodm)

## Connect your LCD display

I tried two different display connection types: I2C and SPI. Both are working perfectly with my image 2.6 or higher.

![](https://www.armbian.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/hummingboard-display.png)

- I am using [2.4″ 240×320 SPI TFT LCD Serial Port Module+5/3.3V Pbc Adapter Micro SD ILI9341](https://www.google.com/search?q=2.4%E2%80%B3+240%C3%97320+SPI+TFT+LCD+Serial+Port+Module%2B5%2F3.3V+Pbc+Adapter+Micro+SD+ILI9341&oq=2.4%E2%80%B3+240%C3%97320+SPI+TFT+LCD+Serial+Port+Module%2B5%2F3.3V+Pbc+Adapter+Micro+SD+ILI9341)
- Wire according to [this map](https://blog.riyas.org/2014/07/quickly-test-il9341-22-inch-22-spi-tft-raspbmc-fbtft.html).
- You have to use Armbian 1.5 or newer. Currently working only under Legacy kernel.
- Add this to your /etc/modules:
`fbtft_device name=adafruit22a rotate=90 speed=48000000 fps=50 gpios=reset:67,led:72,dc:195 busnum=1`
- Reboot
- Test – display some picture on the screen:
`fbi -d /dev/fb2 -T 1 -noverbose -a yourimage.jpg`
- [Troubleshooting and settings for other displays
LVDS](https://github.com/notro/fbtft/wiki)

## GPIO

[How to control HummingBoard GPIO from kernel space?](http://forum.solid-run.com/viewtopic.php?forum_uri=&t=2345&start=)

## Udoo Quad

- [Kernel 3.14.x](https://github.com/UDOOboard/linux_kernel) and [4.4.x](https://github.com/patrykk/linux-udoo) with some hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/490-docker-on-armbian/) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- Wireless adapter with DHCP ready but disabled (/etc/network/interfaces, WPA2: normal connect, bonding / notebook or AP mode). It can handle between 40-70Mbit/s.
- SATA operational
- Enabled analogue (VT1613) and HDMI audio device

### Bugs

SATA & USB install not working on legacy kernel

## Udoo Neo

- [Kernel 3.14.x](https://github.com/UDOOboard/linux_kernel) with some hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- Wireless adapter with DHCP ready but disabled

Commit message:

Added device tree setup section to IMX6 documentation (#124)
The default Cubox-I / Hummingboard image have fdt_file set to imx6q-cubox-i.dbt and will not boot by default on a Hummingboard.

docs/Hardware_Freescale-imx6.md, after:

# Cubox and Hummingboard boards

## Legacy
System images with legacy kernel

- Kernel [3.14.x](https://github.com/linux4kix/linux-linaro-stable-mx6) with large hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/490-docker-on-armbian/) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- PCI-E operational (Hummingboard Pro, Gate & Edge)
- mSATA / m2 operational (Hummingboard Pro & Edge)
- Enabled audio devices: HDMI, spdif, analogue
- [Bluetooth ready](https://wiki.debian.org/BluetoothUser) (working with Cubox-i/HB PRO on-board device or external key)
- [I2C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%C2%B2C) ready and tested with small 16×2 LCD. Basic i2c tools included.
- SPI ready and tested with ILI9341 based 2.4″ TFT LCD display.
- [Drivers for small TFT LCD](https://github.com/notro/fbtft) display modules.
- [USB redirector](https://www.incentivespro.com/usb-server-usage.html) – for sharing USB over TCP/IP (disabled by default /etc/init.d/rc.usbsrvd)

### Bugs or limitation

- Gigabit ethernet transfer rate is around 50% of its theoretical max rate (internal chip bus limitation)

## Mainline
System images with mainline kernel

- [Mainline](https://www.kernel.org/) with large hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](/User-Guide_Advanced-Features/#how-to-run-docker) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- PCI-E operational (Hummingboard Pro, Gate & Edge)
- mSATA / m2 operational (Hummingboard Pro & Edge)
- Enabled audio devices
- Bluetooth ready (working with supported external keys)

### Set board type
By default the mainline Hummingboard / Cubox-i Armbian images are configured for the Cubox-I with a dual or quad core 
SOM. 

To run the image on another platform or SOM the correct device tree file needs to be specified. These files are stored in
`/boot/dtb`. To set the correct device tree blow a `fdt_file=` parameter needs to be added to `/boot/armbianEnv.txt`. 

Set the `fdt_file=` parameter according to the list below:

IMX6 Solo / DualLite:

- [Hummingboard] `fdt_file=imx6dl-hummingboard.dtb`
- [Hummingboard v2] `fdt_file=imx6dl-hummingboard2.dtb`
- [Cubox-I] `fdt_file=imx6dl-cubox-i.dtb`

IMX6 Dual / Quad:

- [Hummingboard] `fdt_file=imx6q-hummingboard.dtb`
- [Hummingboard v2] `fdt_file=imx6q-hummingboard2.dtb`
- [Cubox-I] `fdt_file=imx6q-cubox-i.dtb` (Default)
  
If a v1.5 SOM (with eMMC) is used the device tree names need to be changed, e.g.: `imx6q-cubox-i-som-v15.dtb` or 
`imx6q-cubox-i-emmc-som-v15.dtb`.

### Bugs or limitation

- Gigabit ethernet transfer rate is around 50% of its theoretical max rate (internal chip bus limitation)

## Desktop

- Pre-installed: Firefox, LibreOffice Writer, Thunderbird
- Lightweight XFCE desktop
- Autologin, when normal user is created – no login manager (/etc/default/nodm)

## Connect your LCD display

I tried two different display connection types: I2C and SPI. Both are working perfectly with my image 2.6 or higher.

![](https://www.armbian.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/hummingboard-display.png)

- I am using [2.4″ 240×320 SPI TFT LCD Serial Port Module+5/3.3V Pbc Adapter Micro SD ILI9341](https://www.google.com/search?q=2.4%E2%80%B3+240%C3%97320+SPI+TFT+LCD+Serial+Port+Module%2B5%2F3.3V+Pbc+Adapter+Micro+SD+ILI9341&oq=2.4%E2%80%B3+240%C3%97320+SPI+TFT+LCD+Serial+Port+Module%2B5%2F3.3V+Pbc+Adapter+Micro+SD+ILI9341)
- Wire according to [this map](https://blog.riyas.org/2014/07/quickly-test-il9341-22-inch-22-spi-tft-raspbmc-fbtft.html).
- You have to use Armbian 1.5 or newer. Currently working only under Legacy kernel.
- Add this to your /etc/modules:
`fbtft_device name=adafruit22a rotate=90 speed=48000000 fps=50 gpios=reset:67,led:72,dc:195 busnum=1`
- Reboot
- Test – display some picture on the screen:
`fbi -d /dev/fb2 -T 1 -noverbose -a yourimage.jpg`
- [Troubleshooting and settings for other displays
LVDS](https://github.com/notro/fbtft/wiki)

## GPIO

[How to control HummingBoard GPIO from kernel space?](http://forum.solid-run.com/viewtopic.php?forum_uri=&t=2345&start=)

## Udoo Quad

- [Kernel 3.14.x](https://github.com/UDOOboard/linux_kernel) and [4.4.x](https://github.com/patrykk/linux-udoo) with some hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- [Docker ready](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/490-docker-on-armbian/) – [what is Docker](https://www.docker.com/why-docker)?
- Wireless adapter with DHCP ready but disabled (/etc/network/interfaces, WPA2: normal connect, bonding / notebook or AP mode). It can handle between 40-70Mbit/s.
- SATA operational
- Enabled analogue (VT1613) and HDMI audio device

### Bugs

SATA & USB install not working on legacy kernel

## Udoo Neo

- [Kernel 3.14.x](https://github.com/UDOOboard/linux_kernel) with some hardware support, headers and some firmware included
- Wireless adapter with DHCP ready but disabled
