docs/Process_Contribute.md, before:

# Collaborate on the project #

**How?**

1. [Fork](http://help.github.com/forking/) the project
2. Make one or more well commented and clean commits to the repository. 
3. Perform a [pull request](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/) in github's web interface.

If it is a new feature request, don't start the coding first. Remember to [open an issue](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) to discuss the new feature.

If you are struggling, check [this detailed step by step guide on contributing](https://www.exchangecore.com/blog/contributing-concrete5-github/).

**Where are sources?**

Build script: 

	https://github.com/igorpecovnik/lib

Manual:

	https://github.com/igorpecovnik/lib.wiki

# Help with donations #

If you find our project useful, then we’d really appreciate it if you’d consider contributing to the project however you can. Donating is the easiest – you can use PayPal and Bitcoin or you can buy us something from our Amazon.de wish list.

http://www.armbian.com/donate/

Thanks!

Commit message:

updated contribute process per Tidos request.. added quick documentation markdown template

docs/Process_Contribute.md, after:

# Collaborate on the project #

## How? ##

1. [Fork](http://help.github.com/forking/) the project
1. Make one or more well commented and clean commits to the repository. 
1. Perform a [pull request](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/) in github's web interface.

If it is a new feature request, don't start the coding first. Remember to [open an issue](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) to discuss the new feature.

If you are struggling, check [this detailed step by step guide on contributing](https://www.exchangecore.com/blog/contributing-concrete5-github/).

## Where are sources? ##

Build script: 

	https://github.com/igorpecovnik/lib

Manual:

	http://docs.armbian.com

# Collaborate with Documentation #

## Documentation Workflow ##

1. Contributor clones repo `git@github.com:igorpecovnik/lib.docs.git`
1. Contributor copies  ex: `templates/howto_template.md` to `docs/howto_new-topic.md`
1. Contributor creates content within the simple framework provided by template
1. Contributor commits and pushes to repo
1. post-commit job runs a more intelligent version of `tools/mkArmbianDocs.py` and generates new mkdocs.yml
1. post-commit builds new docs site, pushes, builds PDF (maybe--unless extra curation is desired)
1. Contributor is delighted that creating a single markdown file was all that was needed to impact the community
1. Contributor is inspired to create more content -- because it was soooooo easy.


# Help with donations #

If you find our project useful, then we’d really appreciate it if you’d consider contributing to the project however you can. Donating is the easiest – you can use PayPal and Bitcoin or you can buy us something from our Amazon.de wish list.

http://www.armbian.com/donate/

Thanks!
